Army guys, of course, still had some khakis left
over. But, you know, it was cheap, whatever it was.
And did you all get regular haircuts? Oh, yeah.
Yeah, you didn't see any long hairs. What did you
all come to assume were the unwritten but clearly
understood rules for classroom behavior?
I think... that certainly were unwritten, but I
think they were a carryover from where you came
from school, you know, your high school. And in
those days, there weren't any rowdy classes. I
think the veterans were there by and large to get an
education. They weren't there to make any kind of
post. I do think that the veterans probably had a
quieting influence on anybody who wanted to be
writing. I don't think we ever had any discipline
problems in class. I never remember one. Do you
remember some pranks or jokes that ever occurred
in any class? Not in class, no. There were always
stuff, you know, off campus. I mean, you know, out
of class. But I don't, we were a pretty serious
group. I don't remember any. What about some
faculty members that you came to respect highly
during all of your years there? During all my
years? All your student years.
I have good recollections of more of my
junior-senior years. Not so much the business
faculty. I would say they were, by and large,
mediocre. But the liberal arts faculty, I
remember a feeling that I was really learning
something there. I liked English. I had some good
English professors. I can't remember names right
now. Who was the head of the English department?
Gosh, I can't remember. Was it Cofer? No. D.B.
Cofer?
I can't remember. But I do have a distinct feeling
that I got a good liberal arts education. Those
guys, the liberal arts people, for some reason I
had the feeling that they had been there. They had
some tenure, more so than the business school. Do
you remember some nicknames for some faculty
members? No. There were some, but I just can't
remember. Let's see, what about some student
pranks in the dormitory or anywhere else that you
knew about? About the only thing, people get
drowned out occasionally, which I've already
explained. Not much more than that, and there
wasn't a whole lot of that. Occasionally guys come
in drunk and raise a ruckus, but I expect less of
that than a lot of other places. Where did you and
your buddies that first year or so go on a Saturday
night for a good time? Well, first of all, we were
constrained by lack of money. But not having cars,
we couldn't leave. We couldn't leave Bryan
College Station. We would go to the movies. We
would go out and drink some beer. Of course, those
who were older could do that without a problem.
Where did you go to drive? Oh, there was a little...
beer joint halfway between Bryan and College
Station, kind of at the Y down there, and we'd go
down there and drink beer. There really wasn't a
whole lot to do. Movies, and that's it. Did you go to
Uncle Ed's? Hard Liquors? I went out to Hard
Liquors, yeah. Describe it, as far as you
remember. I really don't have much recollection
of it. How many people could it seat?
Oh, gosh. Was it a Maybe 40 or 50. Was it a wild, noisy
place? No, just good times, but not wild and noisy.
I don't remember it being wild and noisy. And did
they attempt to not serve beer to underage people?
Well, since we were of age, I never paid much
attention to them not serving. I don't ever
remember anybody being refused. Did people get
drunk? Oh yeah, yeah, people got drunk, but I never
got real bad. I do remember there was a, he was a
fellow who had been on the team of, championship
team of 39, and he was one of these guys who, he was
apparently a great football player, but he could
never get away from college, and he'd come back and
he lived out there, and he was a drunk, and we used to
feel so sorry for him. Did you, that first year or
so, did you ever go to the clay pits? Don't know
where they are. Okay. That's an area, I don't know
in what era, but it was west, south of the campus,
across the railroad in somebody's pasture, and it
was an old pit where they had dug some clay for
building purposes. And there was sleazy water in
there, and apparently that's where they'd go,
eight or ten guys, drink beer, maybe go skinny
dipping, No, I don't know about that. In those
years, all of your student years, were you ever
aware of a bootlegger in Brazos County? I heard of
him, but I didn't know about him. If anybody wanted
liquor, he drove across the river. Did you all call
it Whiskey Bridge? I don't think we called it. I
know that name, but I don't think we had it. It was
just over the river. Did any of the veterans bring
alcohol back into the dormitory? Not much. There
was some. but not much. And not hard liquor,
really, that I remember.
Occasionally some beer, but there really wasn't
much of that. What were the, while we're on this
point, what were the other, what were people
smoking? There were a lot of pipe smoking,
cigarette smoking, not much cigars. But a lot of
people did smoke. Probably, you know, a lot more
than they do now, I'm sure. Churned tobacco? The
rodeo team did, yeah. I remember one time the rodeo
guys all lived in one dormitory. I want to call it
Pazell, but I don't know whether it was or not. It
was right by Sabisa Hall. And they all lived in that
same dormitory. And most of them did. And one time a
guy had a rope that he wanted to stretch. And so he
had a car. And he tied the rope around the bumper of
the car and the other side to a tree and then took it
up tight, you know, to stretch the rope. And the
campus policemen at that time, the campus cops
were not the caliber they are now. They were
really, I don't know where they got them. But they
ticketed this guy for having bad brakes because
they thought he had tied his car up to keep him from
rolling down the street. That was the mentality of
the campus cops at that time. But the rodeo guys,
they were a tough group. They were a lot of fun. But
they dressed just the way rodeo guys always have
dressed, I guess. The MSC didn't exist. Oh, Guy and
Hall. There were movies there, too. Casual movies
in Guy and Hall, yeah. That's where I first saw it.
We've never been late.
But I don't remember going to Guy and Hall a whole
lot. And maybe one of the reasons is, of course, I
worked at WTOL, and then I went to work on the
battalion. I mean, working in the battalion, you
just didn't have any time at all to go off to movies
and do that. Alright, now why did you get involved
with the battalion? You weren't going to be a
journalist were you? No, I had no ambitions to be a
journalist. I'm not sure how I got involved. I know
I paid a little bit more. I think I was making like
maybe 50 cents an hour at the radio station. Maybe I
got 60 or 65 at the battalion. And for a while I
worked at both places. I didn't get paid in the
battalion the first time. But then The battalion
offered to pay me, and so I quit the radio station
and went on the battalion. And you were not getting
any journalism course credit for either one? Oh,
no, no. But that, I have said this before, that is
probably the best experience I had with working on
the battalion. Explain. The director of student
publications, a man by the name of Roland Bing.
Bing? Bing, B-I-N-G. He was an interesting man. He
was, at that time, he was a bachelor. He worked, he
had, he was slightly crippled, and he lived in
YMCA, and he had been, he was an Aggie, and he had
been in World War II, and because he was somewhat
crippled, he had limited duty, and he ended up
coaching a black football team at Randolph Field,
which apparently, and he got all the good black
football players And his team beat everybody. And
he did not need to go into the Army. He went in. He had
to fight his way to get in. Well, he came out and went
to A&M. And he was in charge of student
publication. And he ran that operation as well as
anybody, I think, ever could. And he made it a
challenge to us to put out a paper without mistakes
in it. What did you all think the function of the
battalion was? We were very independent. What was
its importance? It's important. We were the
newspaper, and we prided ourselves on being very
independent. And we were. They never checked our
editorials, our news stories. But Bing, we always
called him Bing,
conveyed to us the responsibility that we had of
running our own newspaper. And he would say, as
long as you do it responsibly, you don't need to
worry about anything. Do it right. And we honored
that. Did y'all print stories that were positive
as often as you did negative? Yeah, we tried to be
very, we won several college newspaper awards
while we were there. And while we were, one of the
things that we kicked off, I don't know whether
they do it now, but we sponsored the Southwest
Conference Sportsmanship Award. That was a first
for the battalion. But we did win a number of
awards. But he would put, Bing would take the paper
and put it up on the bulletin board and circle in red
any grammatical error that we made or where we were
editorializing in something that should have
been a news story or where it was obviously
slanting the news. He would point it out. And our
goal was to put up a paper that Bing couldn't put a
red mark on. Where was the Where were the offices?
Goodwin Hall. Goodwin Hall. And the press was in
the basement of Goodwin Hall. So it was actually
printed there? It was printed there, and we set our
own, we didn't set our own type, we set our own
headlines, and we made up the paper down there on
our own. There were some really good fellows that
worked down in the press, but we put the paper to
bed. How many issues per week? Five a week. So just
the weekdays? Weekdays only. Weekdays only. And
it was morning or afternoon? Let's see. I should
have that. It was afternoon, because it took us the
whole evening to run the press roll. I think it came
out in the afternoon, early, mid-afternoon. And
did you say a while ago you don't remember how you
exactly got involved? No, I really don't. I think
it was maybe somebody on W-Talk. Also worked in the
paper and said, hey, they need somebody over here
who can do this, you know, and I went over and worked
both places. But all student publications worked
out of it. What were some important stories that
you remember? Oh, gosh. I got in trouble with the
administration one time, and I don't know, I guess
it was when I was a junior, maybe. And for some
reason or other, they cut the Christmas vacations
You didn't get off on a Christmas vacation until
like the 22nd or 23rd. You just had a few days. And my
brother, who came the day after I did, he was
married. He was an architect, and he could draw.
And I got him to draw a cartoon, which we put on the
front page. And it showed this Aggie standing
knee-deep in the snow with his bag. And Santa Claus
saying, you should have been home for Christmas by
now. And he says, I couldn't. I go to A&M and they
wouldn't let me out. And Dr. Harrington called me
into his office and read me the riot act. But they
were wrong. And I didn't worry about that. They
never said anything about it. But it really upset
the administration. Was it during that time when
the Corps marched on Dr. Gilchrist? No, that was
before. That was 46 or 47. I thought so. No, this was
later. What were some other big issues that you
all... Oh, well, I told you how I got in trouble
editorializing against Midnight Yale practice.
That was a mistake. And it was a signed editorial.
Oh yeah, they knew who wrote the editorials. I
don't remember any big stories. Of course, a big
story was whenever the guys from the University of
Texas came over and tried to firebomb the bonfire.
which at that time was built on the parade ground
outside of, I don't know what they call it now, but
it was outside Goodwin Hall. The drill field.
Drill field, okay. It's now Simpson Drill Field.
Simpson, okay. Let's talk about Bonfire. Do you
remember Bonfire your freshman year? Since it was
in you, you didn't see it. Did you veterans get
involved at all? Not as much as the Corps did, but it
wasn't as big an organized thing then as it has been
in recent years. What was the Bonfire made of? It
wasn't big logs like they do now. It was more
whatever they could gather up. It was pretty big,
but I mean, compared to other schools. Where did
they gather it? Down, you know, off campus. But I
don't remember. And how did they procure that? I
don't have any. I'm sure it was illegal. I don't
remember. See, on the battalion, I didn't have
time to do that. We just would comment on it. We
didn't have to work on it. And what was the pinnacle
of Bonfire? Oh, it was a night house. And it was
supposedly, was it painted orange in your day? I
don't remember it being painted. I'm sure it had
marks from UT on it, but I don't specifically
remember. Do you remember in any of your years did
you help gather up any of the material? No, because
I was working on it. All right, now describe this
bombing. Well, the stack had been pretty well
built, and battalion officers were up on the
second floor of Goodman Hall overlooking the
drill field. And It was just a day or two before, and
we heard this airplane. Daytime? It was daytime.
Oh, yeah. I heard this airplane, and it came over,
and it came real low. And they were dropping things
out, which turned out to be some kind of bottle-top
cocktail. I don't know whether they were on fire.
They had to have been on fire, I guess. Well, they
thought they could set the thing off, and that was
what they couldn't have. But we were all very
frustrated, shaking fists in the air, because the
airplane might have, as I remember, more than one
pass over trying to drop things on it. And I mean,
Pete, we were furious, you know, because we felt so
impotent. And nobody got out a gun? No, no, nobody
did anything like that. Was it a biplane? No, it was
a single-wing plane. And the story we got was that,
you know, you knew where it came from. So somebody
in the administration called over to Austin and
alerted the police over there, and they picked the
guys up when they landed. I don't know what
happened, but... But it was a big excitement. We
didn't have many things happening. Who were the
key administrative leaders of A&M during your
undergraduate days? The one that I remember, of
course, Dr. Harrington, Dean Penberthy. Spike
White, he was the student activities athlete, all
that sort of intramural sports type thing. Can you
describe them in personality? Dr. Harrington?
Yeah, he was... I have to be careful here to think of
Dr. Harrington's name as I knew him later, but he
was well respected. Chemistry faculty member?
Yes, he was chemistry.
And I think there was a feeling of respect for him
and the office at that time. I presume that still
exists. But he was, by that time, he's the
president. I think he was, he may have been dean of
arts and sciences. I didn't go that high up in the
hierarchy at that time. But he was the one that, in
my mind, stands out because he's the one that read
the right act to me when I put that cartoon in the
paper. And then Penberthy. Penberthy was
director of, dean of management at that time, it
was just Dean Penberthy.
It wasn't a particularly forceful kind of fella.
But did you respect him? I think we tolerated him.
The veterans didn't pay much attention to him, to
tell the truth. I think he felt the veterans were
more than he could handle because they respected
him, but if they wanted to do something, they
didn't. A&M changed because they didn't have the
control over the student body like they'd had
before. And of course, then the commandant of
cadets, he was a big factor. When I first got there,
I think it was Joe Davis was the commandant. And Joe
was a good fellow. But the administration didn't
give him much slack. The better one, the best one,
in my recollection, was Hayden Bogart. Describe
him. Oh, he was a tiger. He'd been a Marine enlisted
man in World War I. He was then, of course, went to
West Point. He was tough. He ran, and my experience
with him is when I, after I got into the Corps, he
would not tolerate shoddiness in any respect.
There'd been a good bit of hazing going on. He tried
to put a lead on it, and it was fairly successful. He
just wouldn't tolerate it. He was introduced to
the honor code, which was well respected. He was
tough as nails and swore like a Marine. The guys
were kind of afraid of him, but he wanted them to be.
But he was a good man. He was a good friend.
He didn't kowtow to the administration like
former Commandants had. Former Commandants were
not, they were employees of the state, whereas the
Boatner was active duty Army members. And that
changed the relationship. And so he pretty well
ran the Corps. Later, were you and your buddies
surprised when he took over that Korean prisoner
of war camp where there had been a riot and
everything? I don't think we were surprised. but
we felt that he was probably the best man for the
job. A sidebar to that, I was, after I graduated, I
went into the second division in Korea, and had
been there about, oh, almost a year, and I was due to
rotate home. I may have told you this story. I was
due to rotate home. Unbeknownst to me, General
Boatner, Colonel Boatner had been promoted to
Brigadier General, and I was in Japan on R&R, And he
got assigned to 2nd Division Command, Assistant
Division Commander. So I went back to Korea from
R&R. I didn't know he was there. And I arrived in my
battalion, back of the truck, two day broke the
beard, covered with dust. And I jumped out of the
back and the battalion commander came up and he
said, there's some general in our division who
wants to see you right now. He said, take my jeep and
get down to him. Went to the other battalion
commander and gave the jeep to the lieutenant that
he's living in. So I went down and I didn't I was
trying to think what I'd done in Japan that would
merit, you know, what I felt was coming. And I got
down there and got a hold of his aide. And I told him
who I was. And I said, the assistant division
commander has asked to see me. And he said, yes, he
wants to see you. I said, well, boy, I'm in trouble.
So I went down and he was living in a truck, you know,
with a bed on the back of it. And who comes out of the
general boat? And he looked at me and I'm standing
there and I have this dust all over me and I'm not
shaved. And he tore me up one side and down the
other. What kind of specter are you? What do you
mean coming in and reporting to me looking like
you've come out of a ditch? I mean, for about five
minutes. Then he laughed. He said, come in and have
a drink. So we went in and had a drink with him and he
said, I've been given the job of having division
history written. And he said, He knew me from the
battalion. He said, I think that's something you
could do. And I didn't want to do it because I was due
to go home. And I scuffled around a little bit and he
sensed that I was reluctant. And he said, go back
and think about it and give me a call tomorrow. So I
went back to the battalion. I got to the battalion
and my bags were packed. I had already been
transferred. And so I went back down and he laughed
and he said, Now, this was about July or August of
1951. And he said, you get this done, I'll see you
get home for Christmas. So he gave me a driver, and
just carte blanche to do it. And I ended up with a
couple artists and photographers and what have
you. And I drove all around the division, and I
wrote that history. And so I carried it back. He
never asked to see it. I carried it in, and I gave him
the whole manuscript. And he said, okay. He said,
they'll come back in about three days. I'm back
three days. He said, okay. He said, now I want you to
get published. And he gave me the name of a colonel
going to the Far East Command. He said, you go over
there and tell them Hayden Boatner said to put you
together with somebody that can publish this book
in Japan. So my entourage, we got over to Japan, put
something with VIP quarters and gave us a staff
car. I went in to see this colonel. And I said,
Hayden Boatner said for me to tell you this. And so
he said, be accustomed. He said, okay. And he put us
with the Fari printing company that printed the
Fari's edition of Newsweek magazine. And they had
English line types. So they put the thing
together, and we went in 10 o'clock in the morning,
proofread until mid-afternoon, went out and went
back. And we just lived our life a ride, you know,
for about five, six weeks. And they put the thing
on. I called on the phone, and by this time it was the
middle of December. I called Boatner on the phone,
and I said, we've got the first production, the
first books off the line. And by this time, I had a
captain working for me. Well, I was first
lieutenant, but the captain worked for me. The
captain ended up, he was living with some Japanese
girl. But he said, you tell Captain, whatever his
name was, he said, you tell him to stay there and
make the arrangements to ship these books to the
addresses that we're going to give him. And he
said, you go over and see Colonel so-and-so. Far
East Command said you're to get home by Christmas.
In four hours, I was on an airplane. And then the
follow-up to that is, I went to Fort Knox. And I did
make it home for Christmas. I went to Fort Knox,
finished armored school, and at that time he'd
been sent to coaching. And he called me and wanted
me to be his aide at coaching. But I'd already just
taken another job as an aide to another officer at
another job. So I couldn't do it. It was a big
decision, because I really kind of wanted to go.
But the guy I was aide to was the commander general
of all the armored corps, and I figured I'd better
stay with him. But anyway, we were good friends. I
used to see him when he lived here, and then to a day
he died. Let's see, back on campus. I got away from
it a while ago, and if you have an answer to this,
typist, put it back in chronological, go back in
the right time. People smoked tobacco, and they
drank some beer, and a little bit of strong
alcohol. Yeah, but not much. What other, did y'all
even know any other... Drugs existed? Absolutely
not. I don't think there was a tea school full of
drugs on the campus outside of the medics. It was
just not there. And in that first year or so, where
did you and your buddies get dates?
I made a couple trips up to TSCW. There's something
else now, I don't know what it is, but up there. TWU.
TWU, okay. Mainly through there, I think. Because
those girls would come down, you know. They'd
empty out a dormitory and put the girls in there.
Did you have any of those dates? Oh, yeah. Describe
the routine. How would the girls get down there?
I'm trying to think. Was it on the bus or the train?
No, it wasn't the train. It must have been the bus or
maybe cars. I don't remember how they got there. We
didn't have a transportation. Many of us did. And I
didn't. But... I don't remember how they got
there, but anyway, most of them stayed in
dormitories. They'd clear out a whole dormitory.
You'd just have to go and move somewhere else. And,
oh, it was a great time. How were those young women
treated? Oh, marvelous. You know, because there
were still relatively few of them on campus, even
when they'd come in from the dances. And they'd
bring their friends, too. Oh, they got the royal
treatment. It's not like today where you take it
for granted. Now, I've heard about Some routines
in the dormitory of a moose pod or beast bucket
where there would be a kind of a game. Who got stuck
with the worst date? No, I don't remember that. All
dates were good. There weren't any bad ones. And
where were the dances held? Sabisa. Oh, yeah.
Sabisa got all decorated up. They had a band. The
Aggieland Orchestra would come in and play. What
did you all think about the Aggieland Orchestra?
Oh, we loved them. They were good. They played our
kind of music. I keep thinking that ought to be
recreated. They don't have it now? No. That would
be a splendid thing. What was his name, Turner?
Yeah. Bill Turner. I think it was. Oh, it was a very
credible dance thing. Yeah, and they played
concerts across the state, I've learned.
Do you remember taking any dates to football
games? No, I don't. I must have, but I don't
remember. And you veterans didn't get involved
with Reveley? Oh, you get up in the morning, you
ain't got Reveley? Or the dog? Or the dog, either
one. No, we didn't get involved. Of course, if
Reveley came around, he got same treatment on our
side of the fences. Is that right? Oh, yeah. Let's
see, did you go to any basketball games? Yes, I know
I did. And they were in... DeWare? DeWare, yeah.
Describe them. noisy, hot, and we didn't win many.
What did you and your buddies think about Yell
Leaders? Oh, we liked them, yeah. They had
civilian, non-reg Yell Leaders also, and they
were a very closely knit group, and everybody
liked them. We elected them, as I remember. And
football and basketball games, did you veterans
mix in with the core? Yeah, there wasn't any
distinction.
Were you all aware of any special courses or any
kind of gimmicks for athletes? No. They took the
same courses? They took the same courses, had the
same props, everything. I don't even know that
they got any kind of special counseling. They
didn't make it. The married veterans, describe
what you remember about where they were living and
the routine for them. Okay. Well, their routine on
campus was basically, you know, like the other
non-regs. And their wives worked all over campus.
I don't think the school could have gotten by
without all those wives because the school had
grown so rapidly and there were so many jobs to be
done and those young girls, you know, they'd this
field in every position you can think of. They
lived, some of them lived in town, but most of them,
I think, lived in the old converted army barracks
that were over there, I don't know how to, off Texas
Avenue, down from where the Ramada is, back in
there. And they were abysmal buildings. All
right, now, weren't there also some down near the
south end of Kyle Field? There were some houses,
but those were, I think, were the project houses.
Oh, so they were that, all right. And were there
some veterans housing also near the Northgate
area, stuck in there? Not that I remember. Married
veterans, not that I remember. I think it was all
kind of down from the Ramada back in there. College
Butte. Yeah, the College Butte. There were a lot of
them. And it was great to go over there and get a home
cooked meal once in a while. We had friends.
Was there a veterans extracurricular
organization? If there was, I don't remember, but
they were pretty active.